
# Objective

Be the first alliance to put all your balls into the goal. There are
no points scored, only a winner.

# Alliances

A game is played between 2, 3 or 4 opposing alliances. Alliances
should have the same number of robots. Each robot on an alliance may
have 2 drivers. Alliances may have any number of other human players,
as long as the largest alliance is no more than 2 players larger than
the smallest.

# Field

The area of play for the robots is within a circle 100 feet in
circumference. At the center of the circle is the goal, a weighted
rubber garbage can. The circle is divided into equal size sectors, one
for each alliance.

The area of play for humans is outside a concentric circle 125 feet in
circumference. The gap between the two circles is a safety zone that
may not be entered by robots or humans.

It is not critical that the circles are perfectly shaped or the goal
is in the exact center. The field can be marked in chalk or with
electrical extension cords.

# Game Pieces

Each alliance has three flags and three balls.

A flag is a cube or regular tetrahedron with 8 inch edges. The flags
are open lattice formed by smooth plastic tubing. Vision tracking aids
such as paint or tape may coat the tubing.

A ball is a size 3 or size 1 soccer ball or similar substitute. It
must be inflated to a normal pressure. All balls must be marked to
show the owning alliance.

# Starting Position

Robots begin play within their alliance's sector and touching the
circle. Flags begin play also within the sector, but touching the goal
or another flag. Balls start in the human player zone, but enter
play during teleop.

# Teleop Play

Alliances attempt to clear all flags from their sector. Once their
sector is clear of flags, one of the alliance's ball comes into
play. Human players can throw or bounce the ball into the goal, or
give it to a robot or to another human player. Robots may use any
technique to put the ball into the goal, but the goal may not be
moved.

Once a ball is in play, it remains in play until put into the goal.
An alliance may have only one ball in play at a time. An alliance is
not allowed to control the ball of another alliance. Balls may not be
used to intentionally damage or knock over a robot or human or goal.
Defensive play by robots and humans is allowed anywhere on the field
with the exception that a human player may not contact another human
player.

A flag counts as being cleared from a sector if it is being carried
clear of the ground or if it is completely outside the sector and
within the robot playing area. If a flag leaves the robot playing
area, it is returned to play near the point it exited play. Flags may
not be put in the goal.

A robot may not control both a flag and a ball at the same time.

# Auton Play

Alliances attempt to clear all flags from their sector. As soon as
this is achieved, a ball is removed from the alliance as if it had
been put into the goal. Robots may not move the goal.

# Fouls

An alliance breaking a rule receives a time penalty or ball adjustment
depending on the severity of the offense.
